---
layout: post
title: "RustFest Global 2020: Architect a High-performance SQL Query Engine in Rust"
date: 2020-11-08
---

I have presented the talk ["Architect a High-performance SQL Query Engine in Rust"](https://rustfest.global/session/18-architect-a-high-performance-sql-query-engine-in-rust/) at the RustFest Global 2020 confrence.

In this talk, I summarize main apsects of TensorBase from designs, implementations and engineering. This is the first systematic writing about TensorBase. I try to keep the readings as simple as possible although the topics of high performance and are usually hard. This presentation is a nice introducation for the newcomers who are interested in getting more familiar with TensorBase. There are still a ton of details and advanced aspects which I didn't have enough time to touch upon. I hope in the future that more exciting information can be shared gradually with the growth of TensorBase.

Here is the presentation. 
<embed src="/docs/Rustfest2020_JinMingjian_Architect_SQL_Engine_in_Rust.pdf" width="100%" height="500px"/>

<p/>
And RustFest team will release the video of the talk at some time if you are interested.

As I have mentioned in the talk, the next version of TensorBase is targeted to be released this month. The biggest change from the first M0 release is that in this new version, TensorBase will pivot to a ClickHouse compatible bigdata system implementation. I am still busy catching up with a lot of work to make this release date. It is planned to provide more information when the new version is released. 

Stay tuned!
