---
layout: post
title: "Core Peering Plan and Community Practice Plan"
date: 2021-01-01
---

To invite more interested people to join the community of TensorBase and Rust development, I propose two plans/suggestions as follows:


## Core Peering Plan
--------------------

Peer coding for [TensorBase Base edition](https://github.com/tensorbase/tensorbase). 

### Requirements

1. Participants: Data or system enthusiasts, comfortable with Rust and C programming. (Otherwise, you will not be excited about this plan.)
2. You are guaranteed to put a regular period of time (e.g. half an hour every day) into the peer coding. (So we can continue to discuss topics of interest.)

### Benefits
Work with me and other data nerds (when available) for seeking the cutting edge of massive data storage and analysis. 

I am [this guy](https://jinmingjian.xyz/resume/), who is eager, self-confident and proud to make peer with you. Don't hesitate to contact with me if you are a data nerd.

This plan is scheduled to be started in around a month later, in that I am a little busy finalizing the next release of TensorBase now. But I just leave this info so that any early friends are welcome. 



## Community Practice Plan
----------------------------

Free style coding in Rust, in that it is not required to have a rigorous schedule. 

You do not have that much time for data engineering but still have similar performance ideas to mine.

### Directions
Linux/Backend focused on architectural performance.

### Potential Topics 

1. BaseLog: lock-free logging, to maximize the total performance of a system while minimizing logging overhead
2. BaseNet: network io framework with a new paradigm (no reactor, no async, no stupid long call stack but top performance)
3. BaseCsv: bug fixed SIMD version of csv processing library
4. ... or you ideas


### Benefits
Works with me and other high perf nerds (when available), seeking top performance and engineering in mind..

### Participants
No requirement for skills. You are just loving the direction of this plan and have time to start to code. You are encouraged to provide your own ideas to see if we can start together.

### Non-goal
Feature driven. Tons of same or similar feature based projects may exist on the earth. You are just picking up some of these for your learning or just-working usage.


```
"Do not reinvent the wheel. Invent the better wheel." -- Anyone
```
